Module 1

  

  

What are Historical Curricular-Pedagogical Languages (CPP), and from these languages, what should we retain?

  

According to William H. Schubert (1996), he “identified four recurrent positions on curriculum thought, which I have labeled as intellectual traditionalist, social behaviorist, experientialist, and critical reconstruction” (p. 169). Although each of these orientations may differ, individuals in the education setting may believe and practice a combination of such orientations. The intellectual traditionalist focus is best described as follows, “The great works are the best expressions of human insight, understanding, and wisdom, and the disciplines are the best organizations of knowledge as created by experts in each field” (Schubert, 1996, p. 170). Their belief is set on teaching based on information provided by experts and by acquiring a thorough understanding of each field. The social behaviorist, as described by Schubert (1996), “I don't ask for too much, only that one have evidence for one's advocacy. The Intellectual Traditionalist seems to think that just because a content area has stood the test of time, so to speak, it is valuable for what students need today” (p. 171). Unlike the intellectual traditionalist, social behaviorist believe that teaching should be focused and based on student’s needs at the time. If there is proof for specific instruction, then it should be provided for student success. On the other hand, experientialists believe, “that we learn best when learning springs from our genuine interests and concerns” (Schubert, 1996, p. 173). Experientialist is a more casual approach; it is centered in the idea that learning is more beneficial when it correlates with the individual’s interests and experiences. At last, critical reconstruction as stated by Schubert (1996):

“Although I do agree, in principle, with my Experientialist colleague, I think he is a bit too hopeful- maybe even naive. I am convinced that schools are ‘sorting machines’ for society, as Joel Spring has put it so well. Thus, students are accorded different opportunities to grow and learn, depending on different dimensions of their lives or contexts. I guess that the Social Behaviorist would refer to them as ‘variables.’ In any case these dimensions include socioeconomic class, gender, race, ethnicity, health, ableness, appearance, place of living or location, marital status, religion or beliefs, age, nationality, and more” (p. 174).

Critical reconstructionist believe students should be given the same learning opportunities regardless their “dimensions” as described by Schubert (1996). As William H. Schubert (1996) reflects on a study by Jean Anyon, they attempt to understand “what messages students received from the hidden curriculum, that is, the curriculum of experiences that result from the structures of schooling, not the intended or overtly planned curriculum” (p. 175). In their findings they learn that there is differentiation in how students are being prepared by educators according to the working class they belong to. For instance, “lower-working class students usually learn that success comes from learning and following rules” (Schubert, 1996, p. 175). Without knowing, the circumstances of an individual limit their learning and are kept from thinking outside the box. The “middle class students learn to give the ‘right answers.’ Education, for them, becomes a game of finding out what teachers and other authorities want and providing it” (Schubert, 1996, p. 175). Although the middle-class students are less limited than the lower-working class, they are kept from growing in knowledge and using their creativeness. On the other hand, the “Professional class students are rewarded for being more creative” (Shubert, 1996, p. 175). These students are motivated to use their creativity more, but they are often guided by parents. Finally, “the executive or ruling class that can rock the boat…students from executive class families learn that success comes from manipulating the system” (Schubert, 1996, p. 175). Students from the executive-class are widely exposed to the creativeness and integration of separate fields in their environment, which leads to successfully learning to “manipulate the system” as mentioned by Schubert, (1996). Therefore, educators, unaware, are providing a specific type of instruction according to the environment they are in. Schubert (1996) states that, “The variables are often covert sources of tracking students, and it is well- known that students in different tracks are taught in different and unequal ways with materials of unequal quality” (p. 175). Depending on the setting, instruction, materials and resources may be limited or provided vastly. “All of this is part of a process that the critical theory literature refers to as hegemony…whereby a society or culture reproduces patterns of inequity” (Schubert, 1996, p. 175).  Schubert (1996) believes that as educators we “should begin with the Deweyan psychological, or the interests and concerns of learners” (p. 176). Meaning, educators should focus on helping the learner grow based on their knowledge and experiences. Even though educators are not expected to devote to every one position of the curriculum thoughts, it is necessary “…to remember and develop relevant aspects of all of these positions as possibilities for each educational situation encountered” (Schubert, 1996, p. 176). Although the four recurring positions of curricular thought differ in beliefs, when used in conjunction and accordingly in academic situations the outcome may be of great benefit for students who are exposed to these learning opportunities. As Schubert (1996) states, “…it would be better to ask how instructional media (teacher made, commercially prepared, or student generated) can be created to deeply capture the essence” of these historical curricular-pedagogical languages. When creating instructional lessons, it is important to consider these curricular languages since they focus on achieving student learning success and if used accordingly, they are given the opportunity to think and create much more without limiting them.

Stephen J. Sniegoski (1990) reflects on Harris belief that, “It was essential for the individual to ‘subordinate himself as a particular person, and make himself a servant of universal ideas such as he finds already formulated in society and the state, in Art, Religion, and Science” (p. 5). An individual who is willing to learn each of these matters and comes to understand it fluently would be considered “… a being who could shape its own nature, could be truly free, and for man this status was attainable only through social institutions” (Sniegoski, 1990, p. 5). Only through education would individuals be prepared to function in society, but they needed the education from the different “…cardinal institutions of society--church, state, family, civil society- - provided its own particular form of education” (Sniegoski, 1990, p. 6). This is necessary to enhance learning since each provides its own knowledge. On the other hand, education in school was mainly to prepare individuals to function in society. Sniegoski (1990) states that, eventually “The child would ‘gradually come to see that rules of order are based on deep underlying reasons, and are not the arbitrary will of the teacher, but the necessity of the school itself as a social institution" (p. 14). The school would guide children and prepare them through discipline to become a “…self disciplined adult. The latter would be a self-active, rational individual who could exercise true freedom in terms of his own civilization” (Sniegoski, 1990, p. 14). Overall, the goal was to find “true freedom”, as stated by Sniegoski (1990), and this was through education of a variety of subjects and institutions that would each provide its own specific knowledge. 

Franklin Bobbit (2021) declares that “Our schools today are better than ever before. Teachers are better trained” (p. 1). Therefore, it is necessary to keep implementing innovative methods and ideas to help continue to grow this positive outcome. Unlike the other curricular languages, Bobbit (2021) believes that “Education is now to develop a type of wisdom that can grow only out of participation in the living experiences of men and never out of mere memorization of verbal statements of facts” (p. 10). Instead of drill and memorization, students are making connections to experiences and understanding that what is being learned is not only for a student’s growth in knowledge, but it deals with a bigger life situation that will eventually be experienced in live. “The curriculum however is a primordial factor” (Bobbit, 2021, p. 11). As such, it should be used adequately for the deliverance to be beneficial and meaningful, if it is wronged in any way then it will be inefficient. As mentioned by Bobbit (2021), “Only as we agree upon what ought to be in each of these difficult fields, can we know at what the training should aim” (p. 16). It is not necessary to add more to schools, but to know where to aim, what to teach in each field for the learner to benefit from and acquire it adequately. 

As stated by Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R. (2019) “The aims of education are derived from examining the needs of children and youth in our American society, from analyzing our culture, and from studying the various needs of our society” (p. 122). Like in the classroom setting, students have different needs, therefore, according to the location, culture, and society needs differ. It is important to understand that the aims of education also differ depending on the needs and in most cases it “is directed to the mission of the school” (Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R., 2019, p. 128).  “Statements of aims of education are positions taken that are based on a set of beliefs-a philosophy of education” (Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R., 2019, p. 128). According to Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R. (2019), there are four philosophies of education, the reconstructionist, perennialism, essentialist, and the progressivist (p. 128). Reconstructionist believed that schools could be used “…to achieve what they considered to be improvements in society” (Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R., 2019, p. 129). Whereas the perennialism share a similar view with the essentialist who believe that “…education is preparation for life but opposes the progressivist who holds that education is life” (Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R., 2019, p. 130).  The essentialist believes that education should be focused on learning about cultural heritage. Finally, the progressivists believe in a child centered school. To the progressivists it is important that we understand “…that the needs and interests of learners must be considered…” (Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R., 2019, p. 132).   As in current classrooms, students are offered educational experiences where they learn through hands on activities, which is a belief of the progressivist, but this “…has declined in acceptance by both the public and educators” (Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R., 2019, p. 137).  Even though the two major philosophies used by educators are the essentialism and progressivism, “The essentialist curriculum has been the one to which most Americans have been exposed and the one, therefore, they know best and wish to retain” (Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R., 2019, p. 137). The essentialist has been the preferred philosophy for educators as mentioned by Olivia, P. & Gordon, W.R. (2019) due to its subject matter emphasis (p. 144). 

As years progressed different historical curricular languages have been provided and embedded in education, although not all have been of great benefit as others, it has offered the opportunity to learn and acquire what’s best from each throughout the years. As mentioned by Olivia, P. & Gordon, W. R. (2019), the focus should be “…derived from examining the needs of children and youth in our American society, from analyzing our culture, and from studying the various needs of our society” (p. 122), by doing so students will be given the equal opportunity to grow in knowledge and develop into successful adults in society. 

  

References

  

Bobbitt, F. (2021). Scientific method in curriculum-making. In D. J. Flinders and S. J. 

Thornton (Eds.), The curriculum studies reader (6th ed.) (pp. 9-16). Routledge.

Oliva, P. & Gordon, W. R. (2019). Ch 6 Philosophy and aims of education. Developing the curriculum (8th ed.) (pp. 118-148). Pearson

Schubert, W. H. (1996). Perspectives on four curriculum traditions. Educational Horizons, 74(4), 169-176 

Sniegoski, S. J. (1990). William Torrey Harris and the academic school. Educational 

Resources Information Center.