In this series of messages we will consider God’s calling in the experiences of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, with Joseph, in Genesis. There is a heavy burden within me that every saint would muse upon these words of life in prayer and fellowship with the Lord. 

## THE WAY TO RECEIVE THE LIGHT OF LIFE  
IN THE WORD OF THE LORD  
BEING THROUGH SPIRITUAL DIGESTION

God’s children do not need the doctrine of letters but the light of life. The light of life is contained in the Lord’s words, but if we do not receive and digest His words in our spirit, His words will be merely letters and knowledge in our mind. Only by receiving and digesting the Lord’s words in our spirit can the truth become the genuine light of life in our being. Therefore, the saints who have a heart should bring what they see and realize in the fellowship in these messages into prayer. They can assimilate this fellowship into their spirit by musing before the Lord and fellowshipping with the Lord. 

The truth must pass through man’s mental understanding and memory before it can become the light within him. When we read a message, the first step we take is to understand and remember with our mind. Sometimes we need to take notes because we may not remember. However, using our mind to understand and remember and taking notes are not sufficient for us to digest the word of God. In order to digest the truth in God’s word, we must let the word pass through our mind and reach our spirit. This requires that we muse upon the word of God with our spirit. While we are musing, what we understand goes deeper than our mind and reaches our spirit, the deepest part of our being. When we are inspired, we need to turn the inspiration into prayer, using it as the material for our fellowship with God. In other words, the truth becomes the material for our fellowship with God in our spirit. In this way the truth that we understand [166] is digested into our spirit. Then we can receive the life supply from the truth. 

For example, we said that the first major section of Genesis reveals God’s desire and purpose. (See the book entitled _Revelations in Genesis: Seeing God’s Desire and Purpose in Creation._) After reading a message, we need to spend some time to muse upon what we have read. Our musing may be based on our memory or our notes. A sister might muse on God’s desire and purpose, which works on her so that she has the image of God to express Him and the dominion of His life to rule for Him. While she slowly muses on each point, she gives the Holy Spirit an opportunity to inscribe in her the truth that she has understood. Then her spirit can be easily touched, and she will sense that she is included in God’s purpose but that she is still unable to express Him in His image and rule for Him with His dominion. As a result, she will have a feeling of sadness and a desire to pray. She should pray immediately according to her inner sense. 

When we pray, we should not focus on formality or words. Our prayer can be partly with words and partly by our inner sense; some things might be uttered and some things might not. We are fellowshipping with the Lord in the depths of our being. It seems like both a feeling and a prayer. While fellowshipping with God in this way, we should confess that we are in a state of desolation. On one hand, we ask God to forgive and cleanse us, and on the other hand, we ask God to visit us and supply us with grace so that we may have more of His image and know more of His authority. By musing, praying, and fellowshipping in such a way, this major portion of the truth will become our constitution and reach the depths of our being. We do not need to memorize doctrine with our mind. Rather, something will constantly touch the depths of our being in our daily living to remind us to express God and rule for Him. This light will shine deeply and subjectively in us, and we will live in the light of the truth of the life of God. This truth will no longer be just light but also food for our supply. When we are enlightened and supplied daily, we will grow in life. 

Here is another example. After reading the second major section of Genesis concerning the four falls of man (see the book entitled _Revelations in Genesis: Seeing God’s Way of Salvation in Man’s Fall_), we need to digest it by musing, praying, and fellowshipping. When [167] we pray in the morning, we can muse on these four falls. The first fall was the result of man’s not using his spirit and of his assuming the headship instead of inquiring of God. The second fall was the result of man’s living by the soul with its thoughts and opinions. The third fall was the result of man’s living in the flesh and indulging in the lusts of the flesh. The fourth fall was the result of man’s rebelling against God and collectively rising up to oppose God. By musing on each of these points, a brother will afford the Holy Spirit an opportunity to enlighten him, question him, and examine him. Perhaps a voice within will ask the brother, “Did your walk, conduct, actions, and work today come out of your spirit or your soul? Are you still living by the soul, or are you living by the spirit? Are you living by your own will or by God? Is your work for the Lord a matter of you walking by your own will?” These words will enlighten and examine the brother. The voice within may ask, “Did you indulge in the lusts of your flesh today? Are you acknowledging the authority of God, or are you disobeying and rebelling against Him?” These questions are not merely a matter of knowledge; they are also the light shining in his spirit and examining his true condition. 

When our true condition is exposed in the light of God’s word, we may feel exceedingly sorrowful and pressed to confess and pray. We may even weep bitterly and ask the Lord to forgive us. By our musing, praying, and fellowshipping, what we read becomes basic enlightenment and then is constituted into our being. Then the light will shine on our living and walk, and we will know what it means to assume the headship, to walk by one’s own will, to walk according to the flesh, to build the tower of Babel, and to rebel. We will be enlightened within. After the Holy Spirit enlightens us concerning these items, they will remain in us forever. Then the words that we have read can render us real help. 

Whether we read the Bible or a spiritual book or listen to a message, we should find some time to bring what we have seen, heard, and understood to the Lord by musing, praying, and fellowshipping. All the saints should pay attention to this matter. It will bring in an exceedingly great blessing. I believe that if we would all practice this, many will be able to live in the light of life in a living way.

## ==THE THREE MAJOR SECTIONS OF GENESIS==

==Genesis is divided into three sections: the first section concerns [168] God’s purpose (1:1—2:25), the second section concerns man’s fall (3:1—11:32), and the third section concerns God’s calling (12:1—50:26). If we have insight, we will realize that the Holy Spirit had an essential, intrinsic, and spiritual intent in inspiring the writing of Genesis. Without our reading and musing on the Word of God numerous times and allowing His Spirit to constantly enlighten us, it would be hard for us to touch the intrinsic significance. We would, at best, be able to see the things on the surface. We may see that the beginning of Genesis is on creation, that is, what was made on each day, and we may see that a man and a woman were created. Later, we may see that Adam violated God’s forbidding command, that Noah was saved from the flood, that the people built the tower of Babel, and that God called Abraham. Then we may also see that Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot many sons, that Jacob and his sons went down to Egypt, and that eventually Joseph was put in a coffin. It seems that the beginning of Genesis speaks of creation and that the end speaks of a coffin in Egypt. On the surface this is what is recorded in Genesis. However, if we have insight, we will find some glorious and precious truths in Genesis.== 

==The first section of Genesis shows God’s glorious purpose and His procedure for accomplishing His purpose. God’s creation of the heavens and the earth is merely something outward. We need to see the intrinsic, crucial points in creation. By inspiring the writing of Genesis 1 and 2, did the Holy Spirit merely want to show that God created the heavens and the earth? Such a view is superficial. If we have insight, we will see that the glorious God has a glorious purpose, which is to create a group of glorious people who are like Him, having His glorious image and having His dominion to rule for Him so that He might have rest. This is Genesis 1. Then God used an allegory to describe how He would carry out His purpose through life as the procedure. This is Genesis 2. If we can see God’s glorious purpose and wonderful procedure in chapters 1 and 2, we are reading on a deeper level.== 

==The second section of Genesis shows the tragic process of man’s fall. In the first section God had a glorious purpose concerning the created man and a wonderful procedure to carry out His purpose. However, man fell again and again to the point of being incurable, and he could not be rescued by God. Therefore, God had no choice but to give up the created man. However, because God is the God [169] of glory, the unchangeable God, He could not retract His original purpose even though man fell. Although man’s fall was a frustration, God could not abandon His purpose concerning man. Therefore, He made a turn and called man.== 

==The third section of Genesis concerns God’s calling. This long section of the Bible covers four persons: Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. The stories of these four persons speak forth the significance of God’s calling. Therefore, when we consider God’s calling, we are considering the stories of these four persons. In other words, we are considering God’s calling from the experiences of these four persons.== 

## ==THE SIGNIFICANCE OF GOD’S CALLING==

## ==A New Beginning== 

==The first significance of God’s calling is that God had a new beginning with man. The Bible reveals that God had two beginnings with man: one beginning was creation, and the other was His calling (Gen. 1:26; 12:1-3). In His creation of man God had a new beginning because His purpose and procedure were with man. However, man fell out of God’s purpose and procedure. Man fell again and again until he had completely forsaken God. Hence, God was forced to have another new beginning. This new beginning was God’s calling.== 

==God’s calling is a higher beginning than His creation. When reading the Bible, most people pay too much attention to Genesis 1 and 2, because they can see God’s creation, but they do not pay much attention to chapters 11 and 12. Few people see God’s calling. Chapters 1 and 2cover the beginning of God’s creation, and chapters 11 and 12 cover the beginning of God’s calling. In the Bible God’s calling is higher than His creation.== 

==Are we persons created by God or persons called by God? Is being created more important to us, or is being called more important? While worshipping the Lord, how many times do we praise Him for His calling? Every believer is a called one. Hebrews 3:1 says, “Holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling.” Ephesians 4:1 charges, “Walk worthily of the calling with which you were called.” We are the called ones. God’s calling is His having a new beginning with fallen mankind. [170]==

## ==A Transfer of Race==

==The second significance of God’s calling is a transfer of race. God’s original purpose and procedure were with the created race, but when Abraham was called, God’s purpose and procedure were transferred to the called race. Hence, there was a transfer of race. From Genesis 1:1 through 11:32 the created Adamic race was God’s object. Beginning with 12:1, however, God turned to another race, and the called Abrahamic race became His object. This transfer of race is a great turn in the Bible.== 

## ==Giving Up the Created Adamic Race==

==Created man is of the race of Adam. God had a purpose with the Adamic race that would be attained and accomplished through His life as the procedure. However, because of the four steps of man’s fall, the created Adamic race became irretrievable. Hence, God gave up the Adamic race. Beginning from Genesis 11:10 the mentioning of Adam in the Bible is not always sweet. For example, Romans 5:12 says, “Through one man [Adam] sin entered into the world,” and 1 Corinthians 15:22 says, “In Adam all die.” These statements are not positive, showing that God gave up the Adamic race.== 

## ==Choosing the Called Abrahamic Race==

==After giving up the created Adamic race, God made a turn and chose a man out of the Adamic race to be a new head, a new beginning. This man was Abraham. Abraham is not the head of the created race but the head of the called race. Abraham’s original name was Abram, which in Hebrew means “exalted father.” God changed his name to Abraham, which means “father of a multitude of nations” (Gen. 17:5). Abraham was originally an exalted father, but God wanted him to become the father of a multitude of nations. Abraham was a father.== 

==In the Bible _father_ denotes a source, implying “beginning,” “origin.” This means that God made Abraham a new head, a new beginning, a new origin. When God created Adam, He made Adam the father of the human race, the first ancestor and origin of the human race. Hence, Adam is the head of the Adamic race. Because Adam and his descendants fell repeatedly, God was forced to give up the Adamic race. God called Abraham to be a new father, a new source. [171] From this time onward, God’s purpose was transferred to the called race of Abraham. God did not attain His purpose with the created race because of man’s fall, but He will attain His eternal purpose with the called race through His redemption.== 

==From Genesis 12:1 through the end of the Bible Abraham and his descendants are God’s focus. The Old Testament speaks concerning the earthly descendants of Abraham in the flesh, but the New Testament speaks of the heavenly and spiritual descendants of Abraham. These heavenly and spiritual descendants are the people in the church. All those who are of faith are Abraham’s heavenly and spiritual descendants (Gal. 3:7). Hence, the Bible makes a great turn with the race of Abraham.== 

## ==A Transfer of Life==

If we are enlightened by God, we will see that there was not only a transfer of race with Abraham. A transfer of race is actually a transfer of life. God needed a transfer of race in order to achieve His purpose, and the only way to achieve His purpose is through life. Therefore, God’s intention was to have a transfer of life, from Adam’s life of the old creation to Christ’s life of the new creation. From the perspective of the New Testament believers this is regeneration, which is to be transferred out of Adam’s life into God’s life.

Some say that Adam was the head of the old creation and that Abraham was the first ancestor of the called ones. Although this is correct, we must apply it to ourselves. We are of Adam, and we are also of Abraham. We are a part of Adam, and we are also a part of Abraham. Originally, we belonged to the Adamic race. However, when we were saved, we became a part of the called race. According to its spiritual significance, a transfer of race is a transfer of life. Originally, we had Adam’s life, but when God called and saved us, He transferred us out of Adam’s life into His life. This is a transfer of race, which is also a transfer of life. 

==If we consider the transfer of race from the viewpoint of life, we will realize that such a transfer is not accomplished in one step.== The transfer of race, or transfer of life, began with Abraham and was not accomplished until Jacob was transformed into Israel. 

## In Abraham

In Abraham we see that God gave up the Adamic race and called [172] Abraham. Although this was a transfer of race, this transfer was not completed with God’s calling of Abraham. The condition of the new race was not seen immediately, because Abraham still had the condition of the Adamic race in him. 

Abraham wanted Eliezer of Damascus to be his heir (Gen. 15:2-3). Later, Hagar the Egyptian bore Abraham a son, Ishmael (16:15). Then Sarah also bore Abraham a son, Isaac (17:15-19; 21:1-3). To which race did these three—Eliezer, Ishmael, and Isaac—belong? Eliezer, who did not come from Abraham’s body, belonged to the Adamic race. Ishmael was born of Abraham according to the flesh; hence, Ishmael also belonged to the Adamic race of the old creation. Apparently, Ishmael was of the Abrahamic race. However, Ishmael was born by Abraham’s exercising his flesh. Because Abraham still had the Adamic life, what was brought forth from him was also of the Adamic race. 

This reveals why God did not want either Eliezer or Ishmael. Abraham’s original intention was to rely on Eliezer, whom he did not beget, but God rejected Eliezer (15:4). Abraham later begot Ishmael according to the strength of his flesh, but God told him to listen to his wife, Sarah, and cast out Ishmael (21:9-12). Both Eliezer and Ishmael were produced by the life of Adam and were of the Adamic race. Therefore, God rejected them. Of the sons of Abraham, God accepted only Isaac, because only Isaac was born according to the grace of God and belonged to the called race (17:15-19; 18:10-14). 

Why did God wait until Abraham was old and failing before giving him Isaac? Romans 4:19says, “He [Abraham] considered his own body as already dead, being about a hundred years old, as well as the deadening of Sarah’s womb.” This means that when God wanted Abraham to bring forth Isaac, Abraham was already dead, and so was Sarah. Why did God wait until both Abraham and Sarah were dead in their bodies before they brought forth Isaac? The bringing forth of Isaac was for the transfer of race. The reference to death in this verse implies that the life of Adam had to die so that Abraham could be severed from the life of Adam. If the Adamic life in Abraham and Sarah did not die, whatever they could bring forth would be of Adam, an Ishmael. It was not until Abraham and Sarah were dead in God’s eyes and when Abraham considered himself dead that Isaac could be brought forth. 

How could Isaac be brought forth when Abraham and Sarah [173] were both dead? In Genesis 18:14 God said, “Is anything too marvelous for Jehovah? At the appointed time I will return to you, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.” Abraham and Sarah had both died, but God came and brought forth Isaac. This is a transfer of race, that is, a transfer of life. 

This time what was begotten of Abraham was not another Ishmael but Isaac. According to the called race, Abraham had only one son, Isaac (22:2, 12). Ishmael was born before the life of Adam had died. Therefore, although Ishmael was born of Abraham, he was still of the Adamic race. It was not until the fleshly strength of Abraham and Sarah was depleted, which signifies the dying of the life of the Adamic race, that God came to bring forth Isaac, thus producing another race. 

Abraham’s leaving Ur to go to the land of Canaan (12:1-5) was the beginning of the transfer of race. It was not until the birth of Isaac (21:1-3) that there was a transfer of life. Isaac’s birth was the producing of a called race. Therefore, God said to Abraham, “In Isaac shall your seed be called” (v. 12). This means that not all who were brought forth of Abraham were of the race of Abraham. In God’s eyes, only those who are in Isaac are of the race of Abraham. 

Even though Abraham begot Isaac, the transfer of race was not complete, for Abraham later brought forth several sons who were still of the Adamic race, not of the Abrahamic race (25:1-2). Therefore, Abraham’s begetting Isaac was only a temporary conclusion; it was not the full completion of the transfer of race. 

## In Isaac

The transfer of race was also not fully accomplished in Isaac. His wife gave birth to twins, Esau and Jacob (vv. 21-26). Esau, whom God hated (Mal. 1:2-3; Rom. 9:13), remained in the Adamic life and belonged to the Adamic race. Only Jacob, who was chosen by God, belonged to the Abrahamic race. The transfer of race was accomplished in Jacob. 

## In Jacob

In the beginning Jacob was a deceitful person (Gen. 27:35-36); he was also quite natural. After he was dealt with by God and became the Israel of God (_Israel_ means “one who struggles with God”—32:27-28), the transfer of race was accomplished. Thereafter, his [174] descendants are not called the twelve tribes of Jacob but the twelve tribes of Israel (49:28). All who are born of Israel are descendants of Abraham. However, they are not called Abraham’s descendants but the children of Israel, because in Israel was the transfer fully accomplished. 

God’s called race began with Abraham, passed through Isaac, and was completed in Israel. With Israel there was a complete transfer from the Adamic life. Those who are of the race of Abraham are the children of Israel. 

Of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who had their name changed? Abram’s name was changed to Abraham, and Jacob’s name was changed to Israel, but Isaac’s name was not changed. Why did Abram need his name changed? Because Abram was called out of the Adamic race, he needed a turn, a change of name. His name was changed at the time of his circumcision, when he had a turn (17:5, 10). Why did Jacob need a change of name? Jacob was a natural man who became a spiritual man through God’s work; hence, he needed a turn, a change of name. Jacob’s name was changed at the time of his turn (32:27-28). Isaac did not need a change of name, because he was born of God’s grace (18:10-14); he was called in Abraham. In this sense, Isaac was neither of the world nor of the natural man. Isaac was altogether in Christ. Therefore, he did not need a turn or a change of name. 

## In the Believers

We should not consider this fellowship concerning Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as doctrine. We must apply this fellowship to ourselves. The transfer of race is the transfer of life; hence, it is our story also. Originally, we had only the Adamic life, the life of the old creation, which is of no use, has no place, and has no part in the things of God. Hence, when God called us, He gave us another life, another beginning. This life is God’s coming. It is the life of God and the life of Christ (cf. v. 14; John 1:14, 17). This life can accomplish God’s purpose. Therefore, with believers the transfer of life begins with their regeneration (3:3, 5). From the time of our regeneration we are being transferred out of the life of Adam and into the life of Christ. 

The more we grow in God and the more we experience the work of the cross, the more we are transferred out of the Adamic life in us; that is, the flesh will die, and the life of the old creation will also [175] die. Then we will experience spiritual circumcision, the cutting off of our flesh (Gal. 5:24; Col. 2:11). We will also know grace; we will know God’s coming. God’s life will be formed in us, and our transfer in life will have a conclusion.
This does not mean that there will no longer be any trace of the Adamic life in us. Rather, we will be like the newly circumcised Abraham; we will be like Isaac, who brought forth Esau and Jacob; and we will be like Jacob, who was still natural. It is not until the redemption of our body that the transfer of life will be completed in us. At that time we will be a new race; we will be like God (1 John 3:2), and we will be co-kings of Christ, reigning for God (Rev. 20:4-6; 22:5) for the satisfaction of God’s heart and for His rest. 

The created life of the Adamic race is powerless in accomplishing God’s purpose and thus has nothing to do with God’s purpose. Only the life of the new creation can fulfill God’s desire and attain God’s purpose for the satisfaction of His heart. It was for this purpose that God gave up the created Adamic race and chose the called Abrahamic race. It is also for this purpose that God is operating to transfer us out of the life of Adam into the life of Christ.
